---
title: Wordpress Hosting
slug: wordpress-hosting
description: I have Pantheon aspirations, but a SiteGround wallet. The goal is to sell plugins, themes, tools - and if the proceeds hits a certain amount, I will pay that price.
category:
  - CMS
tags:
  - CLI
  - Tech
  - Wordpress
pubDate: 2024-08-01
cover: src/images/wp-hosting.webp
coverAlt: WP on a blurry background
author: don-dev
---
# Wordpress (and drupal) Hosting

I have Pantheon aspirations, but a SiteGround wallet. The goal is to sell plugins, themes, tools - and if the proceeds hits a certain amount, I will pay that price.

## Pantheon
if you don't know, Pantheon has amazing developer tooling. I'm entrenched in the workflow with my use of terminus (CLI program for performing hosting and system admin level tasks) and lando.dev, a program that abstracts docker and integrates with Pantheon to quickly manage, sync, deploy Wordpress or Drupal code/DB/files.

They also set you up with dev/test/live sites for every install.
*But the price*...

To be fair- I recommend and usually get all my clients to host here. But for my personal Blog and Portfolio that makes 5 views a day? this is overkill.

So what you do is:

For free, build it on Pantheon dev and test - and then when you are ready to #shipit use the SiteGround migration tool to deploy with them.

SiteGround's dash might be 1 step above cpanel... and if you want to download a backup or use git, this increases the cost of the plan. For now, being cheap means managing or setting up custom ssh tools to automate this for free.

## So- Long Way of Saying
I'm pretty upset https://donalcasey.io is on SiteGround lol. I need to remember the goal: host a plugin people want and power this thing solely on subscription income. LETS GO.

