---
title: Wordpress Plugin
slug: wordpress-plugin
description: Building a global system. Or that is the idea anyways.
category:
  - CMS
tags:
  - CLI
  - Tech
  - Wordpress
pubDate: 2024-09-01
cover: src/images/wp-plugin.webp
coverAlt: WP on a blurry background
author: don-dev
---
## Wordpress Plugin

I'm looking to make a plugin based on a few needs. One of the requirements is to pull content over to my other blog https://donalcasey.io which is more of an expat/art photo album than it is about me or about development. 

## Boiler Plate

My looking around led to articles on best way to start. It has been ages since I thought or worked on a wp plugin, so I wanted to see how the kids did it today. My expectation involved the cli. If you search, you quickly find medium and other articles of the like, CLI is one of the described approaches. I guess Wordpress itself ships with a tool? Both of these options give you the bare necessary component (comment in a PHP file LOL) for registering your custom plugin. These articles also point to some git repos a little bit more like a wizard leaving you with a zip of ready to replace text in code. I went with a github project WPPB.

https://github.com/DevinVinson/WordPress-Plugin-Boilerplate

## WPPB, What I Like About It
It's well documented, adheres to standards, but most importantly? Contains examples of all the integrations a plugin could have with WP. 

> Oh, so it's heavy like all things WP and you have to remove so much it's not worth it?!

If this is your take- maybe you do this more often than I, and you probably use CLI or your own thing anyway; 

For most others? Get started here and while you are chugging along your development, think about what you would do differently next time- for now? This is an education that still gets you to where you are going which is my preferred way to learn.
